# AirBnB-Full-Project

Overview

The Airbnb Tableau Project provides a comprehensive analysis of Airbnb listings and bookings. This project utilises Tableau to visualise and explore data related to Airbnb properties, bookings, and host performance across different regions. The aim is to uncover insights and trends to aid in understanding market dynamics and performance.

Project Structure

data/: Contains raw data files and cleaned datasets used in Tableau.
tableau/: Tableau workbooks with dashboards and visualisations.
reports/: Summary reports and findings based on the analysis.


Data Cleaning and Transformation

Data Import: Import raw Airbnb data into Tableau.
Data Validation: Ensure data accuracy and consistency.
Data Transformation: Clean and transform data to facilitate analysis, including handling missing values, correcting data types, and creating calculated fields.


Data Integration:

Combine datasets from multiple sources to create a unified view of listings, bookings, and host information.
Use Tableau’s data blending and joining capabilities for comprehensive analysis.

Data Aggregation:

Aggregate data to summarise key metrics such as total bookings, average nightly rates, and occupancy rates.
Data Analysis in Tableau
Visualisations and Dashboards

Listing Analysis:

Create visualisations to explore distribution of listings by location, type, and price range.
Examine trends in listing availability and pricing over time.

Booking Trends:

Visualise booking patterns and seasonality.
Analyse the impact of different factors (e.g., location, property type) on booking rates.

Host Performance:

Analyse host metrics such as response time, review ratings, and overall performance.
Identify top-performing hosts and properties.

Geospatial Analysis:

Utilise Tableau’s mapping capabilities to visualise listings and bookings geographically.
Explore regional trends and hotspots.

Dashboard Creation:

Develop interactive dashboards to provide an overview of key metrics and insights.
Implement filters and parameters to enable dynamic exploration of the data.

To get started with this project, follow these steps:

Download the Project:

Copy code
git clone https://github.com/nataliewinny/airbnb-tableau-project.git

Open Tableau Workbooks:

Navigate to the tableau/ directory and open the Tableau workbooks to review the visualisations and dashboards.

Review Data and Analysis:

Examine the datasets in data/ and explore the insights presented in the Tableau workbooks.

Explore Dashboards:

Interact with the dashboards to gain insights into listing trends, booking patterns, and host performance.

Contributions are welcome! If you have suggestions or improvements, please submit a pull request or open an issue.

Contact

For any questions or feedback, please reach out to nataliewinny@outlook.com
